OK Guys welcome to another session of limitless calculus.
Today we're going to uncover the constant multiple rule there should be a short lesson as this is a
very easy thing to learn.
Again it's called the constant multiple rule not to be confused with a constant rule.
You might be thinking oh my god.
Another constant derivative rule.
It's very easy and you'll see how it's different from the constant rule.
So nothing to fear.
All right so quickly what is a constant.
Again remember a constant is something that doesn't change.
So for example of constants.
I'll put a couple of numbers here.
For example 5 is a constant because it is a number and 5 is always equal to 5 right.
In the same way sevens are constant 13.
Negative pi.
All these numbers are constants because they never ever change.
So we discussed the power rule in the last section in which we can have something like f of x equals
x to the 3 right now.
What happens if we take this x to the 3 and we multiply it by a constant by number.
So let's say we have a new function g of X and that's equal to let's say 5 times X to 3.
So 5 x to the 3.
Remember that 5 and the exit 3 are multiplying.
There's nothing in between.
That means they are actually multiplying.
So now we have x two or three times five.
Well the question is how do we get the derivative of something like this 5 x to 3.
Well we already know how to get the derivative of x to the 3 right.
So the derivative of x to the 3.
And again this is for this one.
Well again we say that we can apply the power rule so remember dictator rule where the theory comes
down or dictator is taken down.
We keep the X and we're substituted by a last powerful leader.
So that's three minus one is equal to 3 x squared or to the two.
Right so that is when we have X to the three by itself.
What happens when we have 5 x 2 or 3 or by that matter any constant multiplying another function.
How do we get the derivative of that.
Well that's where the constant multiple rule comes in.
Let's check it out.
OK so here we have a constant multiple rule and it reads the derivative of a constant times.
A function equals the constant times a derivative of the function.
What a tongue twister right.
Let me repeat that again.
The derivative of a constant times a function equals constant times the derivative of the function.
So let's quickly apply that rule and you'll see how easy it is.
So let's go back to our example where g of X equals five
x cubed So here we have a constant which is 5 and we have x cubed which is the function right.
So we have a derivative of five times x cubed a constant times a function and just to just to be clear
G of x is equal to the multiplication of this constant times another function.
So the function of x is a composition of 5 times execute right.
So we go back to a rule which says the derivative of a constant times a function equals a constant times
the derivative of the function.
So a derivative of g of X equals the constant.
So 5 again times the derivative of the function.
So the derivative of execute what is a derivative of x cubed.
Again we have our dictator mnemonic which says we're going to bring down the three our dictator and
keep our X and we're going to subtract one from 3.
Like we know it's substituting our leader for a new less powerful leader.
That is three minus one is two.
Let's simplify.
Can we simplify this.
Well it's very easy.
You can multiply the numbers right because they're all multiplying.
So 5 times 3 is 15
and then you just keep the x squared.
That's it.
That is a constant multiple rule applied to another problem.
Let's say that each of X
equals seven x to the tenth power well again the constant multiple rule applies because we have a constant
multiplying a function.
OK.
So let's get the derivative of this
again which is keep a constant on the outside.
Do we apply the power rule here.
Because as a power function.
So we bring down a dictator 10 x and we struck one from the exponent.
Finally we simplify seven times 10 is 70
X to the ninth.
How easy it is.
It is absolutely critical that you know this.
But again it's also very easy to apply.
So again just to summarize we have a constant multiplying a function.
We keep that concept outside.
We do the derivative of the function and then we multiply everything together.
OK.
And to finish up we have our summary.
So first of all sometimes functions have constants multiplying them in front.
Again something like 3 x cubed is the constant three multiplying x.
Cute For those cases we use a constant multiple rule the constant multiple rules of the derivative of
a constant equals constant times the derivative of the function.
So again you put the constant aside you get the derivative of the function and then you multiply everything
together again like I said there's really no mnemonic here.
I don't want to confuse this with the constant rule in this case.
Whenever you see a constant multiplying a function just put a constant aside and multiplied back with
the derivative of the function.
Finally do not confuse with a constant function which is just f a vac equals a number and as a quick
refresher.
So for example here you would do the concert rule when you have a vaccine called 3 or f of x equals
7 or f of x equals negative 1.
These are all numbers right.
So these are all constant functions.
Here the Y is always 3.
Here the Y is always 7.
And here the Y is always negative 1 on the other hand for the constant multiple rule.
It's call that C and R here you would use a constant multiple rule for example 2 x 5.
This is not a constant function.
Why.
Because it's not equal to a number.
It's equal to a number of times x to the five.
No other example would be negative 3 x to the tenth.
Again you're multiplying a number times a function.
And one more example.
Negative 2 x 2 the negative 1.
So again see the difference constant rule.
We only have a number constant multiple rule.
We have a number times a function that's pretty much it.
I'll see you guys in the next tutorial.